We have with us Gopal Bales Chandran,
Chief Financial Officer ICIC Lombard and
we will discuss about Q1 which has been
a mixed set of numbers.
Welcome to ET. Now my first question to
you will be motor OD saw good growth but
commercial vehicle premiums declined
16.5%.
Is this due to market slowdown, pricing
pressure or underwriting strategy?
So uh I think it's a combination of all
the factors that you rightly uh
described. Uh again while I gave uh the
industry combined ratios uh in response
to the earlier question but if you look
at within that for the industry the
combined ratios is currently running at
about 124%. This is for the entire motor
as a category. uh so hence to that
extent how long can industry continue to
lose so much of money is something that
will be closely watched for and
therefore the numbers have to be looked
at in the context of where the market is
operating at. Uh now within that I think
one of the other things that the market
has equally been looking at is in the
context of motor third party at an
industry level we have obviously kind of
sought a price increase how much of that
price increase and at what point of time
that price notification happens. I think
that is something that we will closely
watch for and uh and to that extent that
should also kind of help the overall
market in terms of improved pricing. The
third factor that will also be a
determinant in the context of motor for
the industry will be in the context of
uh financial year 2526 happens to be the
third year of the glide path that the
regulator had stipulated for companies
to make sure that they are operating
within the limits on expenses of
management based on the FI25 numbers
that has been disclosed by all companies
still almost about 50% of the number of
players in the market are operating with
expensive management above the
regulatory threshold and therefore they
all of those companies have to take
measures to bring down their expense of
management which will be very very
positive from an industry standpoint.
From an ICLA standpoint we have always
run our expense of management well
within the limits that has been laid
down by regulation and hence to that
extent I think we believe we are again
in a very very sweet spot and therefore
well positioned to again capture the
opportunity as and when some of these
changes take place.
All right. Uh Mr. Balachandran, now U
company's retail market share stood at
almost 3.5% for quarter 1 up from 2.9%.
Uh now I want to understand uh what is
the focus shifting from motor to health
or motor remains the most important
segment in terms of your focus. Now
>> so again that's something that uh keeps
coming to us quite often. uh the beauty
of uh uh the general insurance business
particularly the business that ISIS
Lombard is into is always we have always
kind of talked about being a
multi-product multi-distribution company
and therefore to that extent that
obviously aids growth in different
segments of the businesses at different
points of time and and therefore to that
extent if you were to ask us retail
health is a very very important and
preferred segment of opportunity that
ICIC lumbar sees and you are right I
think that's a segment where we have
been able to kind of move the needle in
terms of our market share which
generally has kind of hovered around
historically at a level less than
slightly less than 3%. And as we speak
we have been able to end the quarter
with a market share of 3.5%.
Uh and that's a segment where we will
continue to stay invested both in
expanding our footprint in terms of
distribution and equally I think we will
be able to come out with product
offerings which are in the interest of
customers/ policyhy holders. For
example, the product launch that we did
on elevate in quarter 2 last year that
has been kind of well received and
accepted in so far as customers are
concerned. So definitely retail health
will continue to be one of the fastest
growing segments for ISIS alumbard and
it will be one of the preferred
segments. Not to say that for us motor
is not important for us all the lines
are equally important. We obviously keep
looking at what is the uh pricing
environment, what is the uh combined
ratio environment that is playing
through at different segments within the
market and as I said currently in the
context of motor the industry is running
at a combined ratio of 124% which is
obviously a lot of money to lose and
that's the reason why we are a bit
guarded and obviously market cannot
continue to afford to operate at these
levels. things will start to change and
when the cycle reverses, ISIS alumbad is
well positioned to capture those
opportunities.
>> Okay. So, the retail uh health market
share will keep growing. However, the
motor share remains important as well.
Uh Mr. Balachandan, given the change in
the accounting for long-term products,
how should investors assess your growth
in FY26 and what internal metrics are
you tracking to measure real business
traction?
Yeah, unfortunately I think this is
consequent to a change in regulation
that happened in October last year. Uh
which again I think the change in
guidelines is right in the right
interest. Uh so that's the reason why uh
in all our all our communications that
we make that we make consequent to the
financial results announcement. We also
put out the numbers uh so that uh so
that readers of our financial results
are able to kind of look at it on a like
toike basis. uh just to again put this
in context uh from a growth standpoint
uh which you initially asked where where
where at an aggregate level for ISIS no
the growth was at let's say 6%. That
number on an end basis would have looked
like almost a growth of about 4.8%. Uh
but when it comes to bottom line which
is combined ratios the combined ratio on
an end basis for quarter 1 last year
that number was 102.3%.
the same number on a like to-l like
basis in quarter 1 of the current year
on an end basis that number stands at
about 102.2.
So we have actually been able to make a
marginal improvement in the combined uh
pretty much uh on the lines as what we
have been doing every year and that is
exactly the directional trend that one
wants to take. We want to continue to
stay focused on driving profitable
growth and in that context from an ISIS
umbart standpoint you should continue to
see us exhibiting a better outcome in so
far as combined ratios are concerned
>> right Mr. Balachandran you s you just
spoke about the road to profitability
but 67.5%
of cashless health authorizations were
done via AI in Q1 what further
innovations are in the pipeline to
enhance claims efficiency and customer
experience what is the latest update on
common implement as well
>> so I think from an ICL standpoint I
think we have been a firm believer of uh
firm believer of uh use of digital and
therefore to that extent uh and that
includes across uh the three aspects of
uh our policy sourcing uh claim
settlement and even our internal
processes. Um and if you ask us I think
the the product that we kind of largely
offer to customers is predominantly
claim service and therefore to that
extent there is a lot that we can do in
the context of uh enhancing the customer
experience and that is what is getting
reflected in terms of outcome. I think
particularly when you look at our
customer satisfaction scores, when you
look at our NPS scores, clearly
customers have been able to kind of
possibly uh appreciate the appreciate
the the service that we are able to
exhibit to them and obviously we will
continue to keep seeing if we can have
more number of uh more number of service
providers uh being able to offer better
facility to the customers. More
importantly, the good news is the
regulator has done a great job on this
in terms of making sure that the time
that it takes for an authorization
request to uh be issued uh they have put
a time limit of 1 hour and equally they
have put a time limit of 3 hours in so
far as the discharge is concerned. When
you look at this in the context of ICL
Lombard, our timelines for issuing an
authorization for majority of the
procedures it actually relative to the
time limit of 1 hour most of the
procedures timelines that we are able to
exhibit is almost less than 90 seconds.
Uh so hence we have been able to swiftly
kind of respond through use of various
technology interventions and in the
process create a better experience for
the customer. The same is the case where
the regulator stipulated a timeline of 3
hours. I think we have been able to kind
of again do better in terms of services
is concerned. So again lot more to do
but at least relative to the market I
think we think we are kind of fairly
well positioned and that's largely
getting reflected in our satisfaction
scores of customers.
>> All right that's how it sounds like Mr.
Bala Chundan. a lot of focus on making
the claim process smooth. But then
having said that now in light of
increasing catastrophic events, how is
ICL Lombard enhancing uh its reinsurance
strategy and cat risk management in
FI26?
From an IC lumbar standpoint, we are
absolutely cognizant of this particular
aspect and that's the reason with
respect to every risk that we assume
there is obviously a lot of guard rails
or filters that we apply right at the
stage of underwriting to make sure that
we do fair levels of pre-risk
inspections so that we understand the
risk that we're assuming and therefore
to that extent we know for sure what is
a likely loss that we are likely to be
subjected to in the event of a loss. So
even at a stage of underwriting I think
there's a lot of filter that we apply.
Now coming back to your point on
reinsurance very well valid and that's
the reason again both on we what we have
tried to choose do is because reinsurers
are also providers of capital from an
ICO standpoint we have consciously
chosen to work only with a high quality
panel of reinsurers whose credit rating
from a foreign reinsurance rating
standpoint are a minus and above. The
regulatory stipulation allows us to work
with reinsurers which are rated triple B
minus and above. So hence in that
context again very very conscious of the
quality of reinsurers whom we are
working with and two what we also do in
terms of risk protection is to make sure
that in the event if there is a single
large loss or to your point on in the
event if there is a catastrophic or
let's say natural natural loss event
happening like let's say a flood or a
typhoon or a cyclone etc etc. What we
have done is to take a level of
reinsurance protection such that at any
point of time so far as earnings are
concerned the risk is capped because the
rest of the rest of the losses will
possibly be made good by the reinsurer
and even in the event of a catastrophic
loss we have been able to kind of again
put in a similar proposition.
Technically in insurance parlance what
we buy on the catastrophic side is a one
in 250 year protection uh which is which
we believe is very very reasonable and
conservative for the quality of the book
that we're underwriting and hence to
that extent very very conscious and uh
and and are absolutely mindful of the
risk that we are exposed to given the
increased instances of catastrophes.
>> Mr. Balachandran taking it ahead and
talking about your pricing strategy any
price increase taken in health
portfolio. Is there any inception which
has happened at ICL Lumbard by IRDI
related to health insurance?
I think uh from a regulatory standpoint
I think the regulator has obviously been
I think thanks to them over the last two
three years in specific I think what
they have been able to come out with a
lot is with a lot of changes which is
rightfully so in the interest of
customers and to that extent there has
been various master circulars that they
have been issuing last year not only in
the not only in the field of health but
across different categories of
businesses and obviously they expect the
overall market to make sure that their
processes and uh service service
turnarounds are pretty much in line with
these regulatory stipulations. So every
company goes through the process to make
sure that there is a validation of what
the regulator has put out and therefore
to the next even has been through the
process of inspection. The way the
process works is whenever there is an
inspection that happens and to that
extent the regulator then subsequently
could could give us uh their own
observations which we will respond to
and then the natural processes
subsequently follows. uh so hence that's
the process and therefore however from
an ICLA standpoint I think what we stand
for is is obviously we kind of exhibit
high levels of corporate governance and
the need for us to be in compliance with
the regulatory stipulations and
therefore to that extent all our
processes all our uh as I said service
standards are geared to make sure that
we are in compliance with the regulatory
stipulations
>> thank you Mr. Balachend for joining at
this hour and explaining the rational
behind a Q1 numbers.